Project title: Online car Booking system.


Aim/ Objective:
The main objective of the Car booking System is to manage the details of Car, Payment,
Customer details. The project is totally safe and secure and can be used by everyone. The
purpose of this is to reduce the manual work such as writing the customer details, pick up and
drop off location and payment. This saves time for both customer and manager. This project
aims at offering the best of car booking services to the customers in need. It will have all kinds
of cars.
 
 
 Features of this application:
● This application manages all the car booking details like customer details, payment
details, pick up and dropping points. Different distance have different cost.
● It tracks all the information of customer details, booking and payment information.
● It will provide the description of all the available cars and services.
● Customers can view their payment information and they can cancel their order in
time.
● Admin has total control over the application. They can modify the car prices, add
or delete cars, and manage payment details. Admin can access this information if
and only if he logs in to the system with a unique user id. They can change
passwords by clicking the forget password link and get reset password link to their
following email address.
● Customers will get a confirmation of their bookings after booking.
● Customers can choose if they want a driver or not.
● This project can have new features that can be added in the future as required.


Sample scenarios:
 User login:
● To access this web-based application services, the user has to sign up/login with their
email address and password.
● Once the user logs in, they can now access the application.
 
 
 Customer details:
● It will ask for the customer details like name, contact number, and email address.
● It will store the customer details for further contacting.
 Car booking details:
● The application will ask all the details about the booking.
● The user has to provide all the information about their booking like name of the client,
pick up point, drop off point and their contact number. The details will be saved by user
as well as admin. 


Administration end:
● Admin can access this application. Admin can see the bookings made by clients/users.
● Information that is provided by the user/client can be viewed by the admin.
● The user can cancel their bookings.
● Payment details can be viewed by the admin and he can update the status as well.
● Admin can change/modify the car descriptions, and the prices.
● Verify the car information database whether the car is available or not.


User end:
● The user can view their booking details in their account under booked details and can
cancel anytime.
● Transaction details are available all the time to track easily.
● Users need not enter their details every time they make a booking.


Who can use this application in real life:
This can be used by everyone who needs a car for their travel or for their own reasons. This
web based car booking application has offered an advantage to both clients as well as
companies to effectively manage the business and satisfy the customer needs. It takes very
less time to book a car so time is saved. This system will allow the users to book a car
according to their budget. This offers a door step delivery and pick up. 
